---
title: Does the content generated by each [transformation](#transformation) of content comply with [digital accessibility rules](#digital-accessibility-rules) (except in particular cases)?
---

1. From the editing functionalities (a text editor, but it can be a media library and any other interface that allows you to enter text or define properties), enter the types of content offered by the editor (title, list , table, image, etc.). Also use the different parameters allowing you to define accessibility information (enter the textual alternative of an image, add a description to a link, etc.)
2. Save the entries.
3. View the generated content:
- in the editing functionality (for example, in the text editor);
- and in the content publication interface (for example, the publication web page).
4. For each content in web format (HTML, CSS), check:
- that the information necessary for it to comply with [RAWeb](../raweb1/index.html) (for example the alternative of an image, the levels of titles) is preserved in the generated content.
- that the information, if restructured, remains compatible with assistive technologies (for example, if the author enters an HTML table and after saving, the tool linearizes the table, the information as well restructured must be understandable to users of assistive technologies as it would have been in its initial form).
5. For each content in PDF format, check:
- that the information necessary for it to comply with [RAPDF](../rapdf1/index.html) (for example the alternative of an image, the levels of titles) is preserved in the generated content.
- that the information, if it is restructured, remains compatible with assistive technologies (for example, if the author enters a table and after recording, the tool linearizes the table, the information thus restructured must be understandable to users of assistive technologies as it would have been in its initial form).
6. For each non-web format content that is not PDF, check:
- that the information necessary for it to comply with [section 10 Non-web documents](https://www.etsi.org/deliver/etsi_en/301500_301599/301549/03.02.01_60/en_301549v030201p.pdf#page= 52) of the European standard EN 301 549 v3.2.1 are preserved in the generated content.
- that the information, if it is restructured, remains compatible with assistive technologies (for example, if the author enters a table and after recording, the tool linearizes the table, the information thus restructured must be understandable to users of assistive technologies as it would have been in its initial form).
7. If so, the test is validated.
