  # Creative Commons License Attribution 3.0 Luxembourg THE WORK (AS DEFINED BELOW) IS MADE AVAILABLE UNDER THE TERMS SET FORTH IN THIS CREATIVE COMMONS PUBLIC LICENSE (“LPCC” OR “LICENSE”). THE WORK IS PROTECTED BY COPYRIGHT, AND/OR WHERE APPLICABLE THE SUI GENERIS RIGHTS OF THE DATABASE PRODUCERS AND/OR RELATED RIGHTS. ANY USE OF THE WORK OTHER THAN THAT AUTHORIZED UNDER THIS LICENSE OR BY THE COPYRIGHT IS STRICTLY PROHIBITED. WHEN EXERCISING ANY RIGHTS IN THE WORK MADE AVAILABLE HEREBY, YOU AGREE TO ABIDE BY THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE. DUE TO THE CONTRACTUAL NATURE OF THIS LICENSE, THE LICENSOR GRANTS YOU THE RIGHTS SET FORTH HEREIN IN CONSIDERATION FOR YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF THE SAID TERMS. 1. Definitions 1. “Adaptation” means a work created from the Work, or from the Work and other pre-existing works , such as a translation, adaptation, derivative work, musical arrangement or other modification of a literary or artistic work, or of a phonogram or performance, including cinematographic adaptations or any other form in which the Work may be recast, transformed or adapted, including any form derived from the original in a clearly identifiable manner, it being understood, however, that a work which constitutes a Collection will not be considered an Adaptation for the purposes of this License. For clarification, in the event that the Work is a musical work, a performance or a phonogram, the synchronization of the Work with an animated image (“synchronization”) will be considered an Adaptation for the purposes of this License. 2. “Collection” means a collection of literary or artistic works, such as encyclopedias and anthologies, or interpretations, phonograms or broadcasts, or any other works or subjects other than the works detailed in Article 1(g). ) below, which, due to the selection and arrangement of their contents, constitute intellectual creations, in which the Work is included as a whole in unmodified form with one or more other contributions, each of them constituting works in themselves independent and separate which are brought together to form a whole. A work which constitutes a Collection will not be considered an Adaptation (as defined above) for the purposes of this License. 3. “Distribute” means making available to the public the original version and copies of the Work or the Adaptation, as the case may be, by sale or otherwise. 4. “License Elements” means the main feature of the license as selected by the Licensor and mentioned in the title of this License: Attribution. 5. “Licensor” means any natural or legal person(s) who offers the Work in accordance with the conditions of this License. 6. “Original Author” means, in the case of a literary or artistic work, any natural person(s) who created the Work or; in the absence of identification of a natural person, the legal entity under whose name the work was disclosed; or in the case of an anonymous or pseudonymous work, the publisher who is deemed, with regard to third parties, to represent the author, in the case of an audiovisual work, the producer and the main director, in the case of a performance, actors, singers, musicians, dancers, and other persons who represent, sing, recite, declaim, play, perform or otherwise perform literary or artistic works or expressions of folklore, including artists variety, circus and puppeteers, in the case of a phonogram, the producer who is the natural or legal person who takes the initiative and assumes responsibility for the first fixation of the sounds coming from an interpretation or performance or from 'other sounds, or representations of sounds, in the case of a film, the natural or legal person who takes the initiative and assumes responsibility for the first fixation of an audiovisual work or another succession of animated sequences of images, accompanied or not by sounds. Please note that only the natural person(s) who created the Work can enjoy moral rights over this Work. (see 4(d)) 7. “Work” means any original literary and/or artistic work, offered under the terms of this License, regardless of genre, form or expression, including including photographs, databases and computer programs, which is protected by copyright and/or, if recognized by applicable national law, neighboring rights and/or Sui Generis rights of the database producers of data. 8. “You” means any person or entity who exercises the rights granted under this License, who has not previously violated the terms of this License with respect to the Work or who has received express permission from Licensor to exercise rights under this License despite prior infringement. 9. “Public performance” means public performances of the Work and its communications to the public by any means, including its transmission by wire or wireless, by means of radio broadcasting, by satellite, by cable or by network. Also constitutes communication to the public, the making available of protected works in such a way that the public can have access to them from the place and time they individually choose. 10. “Reproduce” means any reproduction of the Work in any manner and form whatsoever. 2. Copyright Exceptions. Nothing in this License shall be intended to reduce, limit or restrict any uses not protected by copyright or rights arising from limitations or exceptions stipulated in connection with copyright protection. in accordance with copyright or other applicable laws. 3. Grant of License. Subject to the terms of this License, Licensor hereby grants to You a worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive, perpetual license (for the term of the applicable copyright) to exercise the following rights in the Work: 1. Reproduce the Work, incorporate it into one or more Collections and reproduce the Work as incorporated into the Collections; 2. Create and Reproduce Adaptations, provided that such Adaptations, including any translation into any medium, take all reasonable steps to clearly show, emphasize or identify that modifications have been made to the Work Original. For example, it will be appropriate to mention, in the case of translation, that “the original work has been translated from English into Spanish” or, in the case of modification, that “the original work has been modified”; 3. Distribute and Publicly Represent the Work, including as incorporated in Collections; 4. Distribute and Publicly Perform Adaptations. 5. For all purposes: 1. Compulsory licensing regimes exempt from any possibility of waiver. If it is impossible to waive the right to receive royalties under any legal or compulsory licensing regime, the Licensor reserves the exclusive right to collect such royalties arising from the exercise by You of the rights granted under this this License; 2. Compulsory licensing regimes with opt-out options. If it is possible to waive the right to receive royalties under any legal or compulsory licensing regime, the Licensor waives the exclusive right to collect such royalties arising from the exercise by You of the rights granted under the this License; 3. Optional licensing regimes. The Licensor waives the right to receive royalties, whether on an individual basis or, in the event that the Licensor is a member of a rights management organization that manages optional licensing regimes, through this organization, arising from the exercise by You of the rights granted under this License. 6. Where the Work is a database, extract and reuse substantial portions of the Work. The aforementioned rights may be exercised on all media and in all formats currently known or unknown. The above-mentioned rights include the right to make any technically required changes in order to exercise the rights in other media and formats. If the Licensor is the holder of sui generis database rights following the transposition into national law of the European Database Directive, the Licensor waives these rights. All rights not expressly granted by Licensor are reserved hereunder, including, without limitation, the rights set forth in Section 3(e). 4. Restrictions. The license granted under section 3 above is expressly granted subject to the following restrictions: 1. You may Distribute or Publicly Perform the Work only under the terms of this License. You must include a copy of this License or the related Uniform Resource Identifier (URI, web address) with each copy of the Work that You Distribute or Publicly Perform. You may not propose or impose any conditions on the Work that would restrict the terms of this License or the ability of the beneficiary of the Work to exercise the rights granted to such beneficiary under the terms of the License. You may not sublicense the Work. You must keep intact all notices referring to this License and the warranty and disclaimer clause with any copy of the Work that You Distribute or Publicly Perform. When You Distribute or Publicly Represent the Work, you may not include technical protection measures on the Work that would restrict the ability of one of your beneficiaries of the Work to exercise the rights granted to said beneficiary under the terms of the Work. conditions of this License. This Section 4(a) applies to the Work as incorporated in a Collection, but does not have the effect of requiring that the Collection itself, independently of the Work, be subject to the terms of the Collection. this License. If You create a Collection, You must, at the request of any Licensor and to the extent possible, remove from the Collection any mention of the source, in accordance with the terms of Article 4(b), and in accordance with Requirement. If You create an Adaptation, You must, at the request of any Licensor and to the extent possible, remove from the Adaptation any mention of the source in accordance with the terms of Section 4(b). 2. If You Distribute or Publicly Perform the Work, or any Adaptations or Collections, You must, unless you make a request pursuant to Section 4(a), keep intact all copyright notices in the Work. 'Work and stipulate, in a manner appropriate to the medium or means You use: (i) the name of the Original Author (or pseudonym, if applicable) if it has been provided and/or, if the Original Author and/or Licensor have designated another party(ies) as having such authority (e.g. a sponsor, a publishing house, a journal) (“Parties Invested") in the Licensor's copyright notice, the terms of service or by any other reasonable means, the name of the said party or parties; (ii) the title of the Work, if provided; (iii) to the extent possible, the URI, if any, that Licensor states is related to the Work, unless such URI does not reference the copyright notice or grant of the license in relation to the Work, and (iv) consistently with Section 3(b), in the case of an Adaptation, a source indication identifying the use of the Work in Adaptation (e.g. “French translation of the Work by the Original Author” or “screenplay based on the original Work by the original Author”). The indication of source required by this Article 4(b) may be made by any reasonable means, provided, however, that in the case of Adaptation or Collection, said indication of source must be mentioned in a manner at least as visible as the indications relating to the other authors who contributed to it. For all purposes, You may only use the source indication required by this Section exclusively for the purposes of attribution in the manner set out above and, in the exercise of Your rights under this License, You cannot, implicitly or explicitly, assert or imply any relationship with, sponsorship or endorsement on the part of the Original Author, the Licensor and/or the Involved Parties, as the case may be, of Your person or Your use of the Work, without having the separate, express, written and prior authorization of the Original Author, the Licensor and / or the Involved Parties. 3. For all purposes: The restrictions mentioned in Section 4(a) do not apply to those parts of a Work that define themselves exclusively as a Work because they are governed by the sui generis database right following the transposition into national law of the European Database Directive, 4. For all purposes: The moral rights, to the extent that they are recognized by applicable national law, of the natural person who is the Original Author of the Work or individuals who are the Original Authors of the Work, are not affected by this License. 5. Representations, Warranties and Disclaimers UNLESS THE PARTIES MAKE ANY WRITTEN AGREEMENT AND TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, LICENSOR PROVIDES THE WORK AS IS AND MAKES NO WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS OF ANY KIND WHATSOEVER. . SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OF WARRANTIES, IN WHICH CASE THIS EXCLUSION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. 6. Limitation of Liability. EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT SHALL LICENSOR BE LIABLE TO YOU UNDER ANY DOCTRINE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT, PUNITIVE OR EXEMPLARY DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THIS LICENSE OR USE OF THE WORK, EVEN IF THE LICENSOR HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SAID DAMAGES. 7. Termination of the License 1. This License and the rights granted hereunder will automatically terminate if You violate the terms of this License. Individuals or legal entities who have received Adaptations or Collections through You under this License will not have their license terminated, provided that such individuals or legal entities comply with such licenses in their entirety. Sections 1, 2, 5, 6, 7 and 8 shall survive termination of this License. 2. Subject to the conditions set out above, the license granted herein is concluded for the term of the copyright applicable to the Work. Without prejudice to the foregoing, the Licensor reserves, at any time, the right to exploit the Work under another license or to cease distribution of the Work provided, however, that said decision has not been shall not have the effect of canceling this License (or any other license granted or to be granted under this License), provided that this License will continue in force unless terminated under the conditions set out above. 8. Miscellaneous stipulations 1. Each time You Distribute or Publicly Represent the Work or a Collection, the Licensor offers the beneficiary a license to the Work under conditions identical to those granted to You within the framework of this License. 2. Each time You Distribute or Publicly Perform an Adaptation, the Licensor offers the recipient a license to the original Work on terms identical to those granted to You under this License. 3. If, under applicable law, any provision of this License is declared invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not have the effect of voiding the other provisions of this License. In this case and without any intervention of the parties being required, said provision will be modified to the minimum extent necessary to make it valid and enforceable. 4. No term or provision of this License shall be deemed waived and no breach accepted unless agreed in writing and signed by the party concerned. 5. This License represents the entire agreement between the parties relating to the Work subject to this License. There is no agreement, contract or declaration relating to the Work which is not mentioned herein. The Licensor cannot be bound by any additional stipulation that may appear in a document communicated by You. This License cannot be modified without the written agreement of both parties.