  ### Concepts of disability and digital accessibility <blockquote><p>Disability is not simply a health problem. It is a complex phenomenon that arises from the interaction between a person's bodily characteristics and the characteristics of the society in which they live. To overcome the challenges faced by people with disabilities, interventions to remove environmental and social barriers are needed</p><footer>World Health Organization</footer></blockquote> Digital accessibility is about making websites and mobile applications accessible to people with disabilities, that is to say: - perceptible: for example, facilitating the visual and auditory perception of the content by the user; offer textual equivalents to any non-textual content; create content that can be presented in different ways without loss of information or structure (for example with a simplified layout); - usable: for example, providing the user with orientation elements to navigate, find the content; make all features accessible via keyboard; allow the user sufficient time to read and use the content; not create content likely to provoke epileptic seizures; - understandable: for example, making pages work in a predictable way; help the user correct input errors; - and robust: for example, optimize compatibility with current and future uses, including with assistive technologies. ### Reminder of the scope #### Content concerned According to articles 1 and 2 of the [law of May 28, 2019](http://legilux.public.lu/eli/etat/leg/loi /2019/05/28/a373/jo), the public sector bodies concerned by this law are the following: - the State; - the cities ; - public law bodies. According to article 2, letter d), of the amended law of April 8, 2018 on public procurement, these are organizations with all the following characteristics: - it was created to specifically meet the needs of interest general having a character other than industrial or commercial; - it has legal personality; and - either it is financed mainly by the State, the municipalities or by other public law bodies, or its management is subject to control by these authorities or bodies, or its administrative, management or supervisory body is made up of members, more than half of whom are appointed by the State, municipalities or other public law bodies. - associations formed by one or more of these authorities or one or more of these public law bodies, if these associations were created to specifically satisfy needs of general interest having a character other than industrial or commercial; The following are not affected: - the websites and mobile applications of public service broadcasters and their subsidiaries and other organizations or their subsidiaries which carry out a public service broadcasting mission; - websites and mobile applications of non-governmental organizations which do not provide essential services for the public, nor services specifically meeting the needs of people with disabilities or intended for them; - websites and mobile applications of primary and secondary schools or nurseries, with the exception of content relating to essential online administrative functions. The [law of May 28, 2019](http://legilux.public.lu/eli/etat/leg/loi/2019/05/28/a373/jo) defines in its article 2 what constitutes a mobile application: > application software designed and developed by public sector organizations or on their behalf, for use by the general public on mobile devices, such as smart phones, also called smartphones, or tablets; it does not include the software that controls these devices, i.e. mobile operating systems, nor the computer hardware. #### Exempted content Certain content is exempt from the accessibility obligation and falls outside the scope of the legal obligation: - office file formats published before September 23, 2018, unless this content is necessary for the purposes active administrative processes relating to tasks carried out by the public sector body concerned; - pre-recorded time-based media published before September 23, 2020; - time-based media broadcast live; - maps and online mapping services, provided that essential information is provided in an accessible digital form for maps intended for navigation; - third party content which is neither financed, nor developed by, nor under the control of the public sector body concerned; - reproductions of pieces from heritage collections which cannot be made fully accessible due to: - the incompatibility of accessibility requirements with the preservation of the piece concerned or the authenticity of the reproduction, for example in terms of contrast ; or - the unavailability of automated and economical solutions which would make it possible to easily transcribe the text of manuscripts or other pieces of heritage collections and to restore it in the form of content compatible with accessibility requirements; - the content of extranets and intranets, i.e. websites which are only accessible to a restricted group of people and not to the general public, published before September 23, 2019 until these websites make the subject to an in-depth review; - the content of websites and mobile applications that are considered archives, i.e. they only present content that is not necessary for the purposes of active administrative processes, nor updated or modified after 23 September 2019. #### Reference standard and level of conformity Websites and mobile applications must refer to and comply with the European standard [EN 301 549 V3.2.1](https://www.etsi.org/deliver/etsi_en /301500_301599/301549/03.02.01_60/en_301549v030201p.pdf) in order to be considered compliant with legal requirements regarding accessibility. #### Exemption for disproportionate burden Legal requirements regarding accessibility are implemented to the extent that they do not create a disproportionate burden for the organization concerned. The disproportionate burden is an exemption that can be invoked, on a case-by-case basis, for a functionality or content. The disproportionate burden may be invoked when it is reasonably impossible for the organization to make content or functionality accessible, particularly in the case where making it accessible would compromise the ability of the organization to fulfill its public service mission or to achieve its economic objectives. Content or functionalities that are not made accessible due to a disproportionate load exemption are accompanied by an alternative allowing the user to access equivalent content or functionalities, as long as the production of this alternative does not constitute not itself a disproportionate burden. If the content or functionality concerns the main missions of an organization responsible for a public service mission, the exemption must be accompanied by an alternative allowing an equivalent service to be provided to the user. Except in justified exceptions, the exemption does not apply to an entire website or mobile application. In order to determine the existence of such a burden, the body concerned takes into account in particular the following circumstances: - the size, resources and nature of the public sector body concerned; and - the estimated costs and benefits to the public sector body concerned in relation to the estimated benefit to persons with disabilities, taking into account the frequency and duration of use of the website or application specific mobile. The size of the organization is determined by the composition of its workforce, the number, position and distribution of its users or clients, the importance, diversity and volume of its activities and services, as well as the territorial extent of his interventions. The estimate of resources takes into account: - its budget, - royalties and remuneration received, - public subsidies or private donations, - profits and miscellaneous revenue, - compulsory expenditure, - payroll, - loans and rents. The cost estimate may include capital expenditure, operational expenditure and labor time, qualifications required. Lack of priority, lack of time or knowledge do not constitute legitimate circumstances. The disproportionate burden exemption does not exempt the entity from producing an accessibility declaration. Content and functionalities not accessible in this respect are listed in the accessibility declaration of the online service concerned with the justification for the exemption and the indication, where applicable, of an accessible alternative. When a website or mobile application simultaneously falls under the accessibility obligations imposed by the law of May 28, 2019, and those prescribed by the legal and regulatory provisions relating to the fight against discrimination of directive [2000/78/ CE of November 27, 2000](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/FR/TXT/?uri=celex%3A32000L0078) and the national laws transposing it of [November 28, 2006](http:/ /legilux.public.lu/eli/etat/leg/loi/2006/11/28/n1/jo) and [November 29, 2006](http://legilux.public.lu/eli/etat/leg/loi /2006/11/29/n1/jo), the assessment of the scope and level of the accessibility obligations, as well as where applicable the disproportionate burden, is based on the provisions most favorable to accessibility in each of these two categories of rules. The provisions relating to the fight against discrimination apply to individual and concrete situations, while those of the law of May 28, 2019 and this framework are intended to ensure the accessibility of public sites and applications to all users. . ### Assessment of conformity with the reference standard #### General framework In order to assess the compliance of the site or mobile application with the reference standard, the organization must conduct an accessibility audit. The audit (or evaluation) can be carried out by the organization itself (self-assessment) or by a third party. The evaluation is carried out on a sample of pages representative of the site or a sample of screens representative of the application. - For a website, the verification of the conformity of the sample pages with the applicable criteria is carried out using the control criteria of the [web accessibility evaluation framework (RAWeb)](./ raweb1/index.html). - For a mobile application, the verification of the conformity of the sample screens with the applicable criteria is carried out using the [reference for evaluating the accessibility of mobile applications (RAAM)](./raam1/ index.html). The final phase of the audit is the accessibility declaration which reports compliance with the applicable rules. The audit (or evaluation) meets the following criteria: - it is reliable: it is up to the organization concerned to ensure the reliability of its declaration by all means (use of an external service provider, training of internal experts, cross audits …); - it is representative: it concerns a representative sample (see “Sample” section below). The accessibility of applications must be assessed by applying the technical method of the reference framework considered. It is possible to use another testing method, under three conditions: - ensure that the testing method used can be communicated on request to a user or an administration; - produce an explicit correspondence table between the criteria and tests and the chosen reference standard; - indicate it in the accessibility declaration. #### Sample ##### Sample for the audit of a website The sample on which the audit of a website is carried out covers at least the following pages, where they exist: 1. the home page ; 1. legal notices; 1. the authentication page; 1. the contact page; 1. the “accessibility” page; 1. the “help” page; 1. the page or a set of pages constituting the [documentation](../../html/en/raweb1/glossaire.html#documentation) of the website (if they are different from the “accessibility” page and the “help” page); 1. the page or a set of pages constituting the [documentation](../../html/en/raweb1/glossaire.html#documentation) of the [helpdesk](../../html/fr /raweb1/glossaire.html#helpdesk); 1. the “site map” page; 1. at least one relevant page for each type of service provided and any other main intended use (e.g.: 1st level sections in the tree), including search functionality; 1. a page containing at least one relevant downloadable document, if applicable, for each type of service provided and for any other primarily intended use; 1. all the pages constituting a process (for example, an entry form or a transaction on several pages); 1. examples of pages having a significantly distinct appearance or presenting a different type of content (e.g.: page containing data tables, multimedia elements, illustrations, forms, real-time communication functionality, etc.) . The selection of audited pages as well as their number must be representative of the site or mobile application. Consultation statistics can in particular be taken into account when constituting the sample. Finally, randomly selected pages representing at least 10% of the elements in the sample described above are added. ##### Sample for the audit of a mobile application The sample on which the audit of a mobile application is carried out covers at least the following screens, when they exist: 1. the screen of welcome ; 1. the legal notices screen; 1. the authentication screen or process; 1. the contact screen; 1. the authentication screen; 1. the screens which constitute the application documentation; 1. at least one relevant screen for each type of service provided and any other main intended use (e.g.: 1st level sections in the tree), including search functionality; 1. at least one relevant downloadable document, if applicable, for each type of service provided and for any other primarily intended use; 1. all the screens constituting a process (for example, an input form or a transaction on several screens); examples of screens having a significantly distinct appearance or presenting a different type of content (e.g.: screen containing data tables, multimedia elements, illustrations, forms, real-time communication functionality, etc.). The selection of audited screens as well as their number must be representative of the mobile application. The number of visitors per screen can in particular be taken into account when constituting the sample. Finally, screens selected at random are added, representing at least 10% of the screens in the sample described above. #### Test environment (or “reference base”) ##### Test environment of a website Some [RAWeb criteria](../../html/en/raweb1/criteres.html) , particularly those in the JavaScript theme, include restitution tests to be carried out on assistive technologies associated with browsers and operating systems. ##### Mobile application testing environment Unlike web content for which it is possible to inspect the source code to determine the presence of elements and attributes, it is very difficult for mobile applications to proceed in the same way. On the one hand, because it would require high technical skills (you access the software, but rarely its code unlike a website). On the other hand, because unlike the web and technologies (HTML/CSS/JavaScript) there is a diversity of development environments which makes it difficult to define a list of tests based on code review. A certain part of the tests of the [reference for evaluating the accessibility of mobile applications](../../html/fr/raam1/index.html) is carried out with the assistive technologies made available on the platforms . ##### Definition of the test environment To validate these criteria, it is necessary to define a test environment (or “reference base”). By default, it is made up of assistive platforms and technologies mainly used by people with disabilities. Each of our two repositories offers a test environment to be used to carry out the evaluation tests: - [RAWeb test environment for the evaluation of websites](../../html/en/raweb1/environment.md); - [RAAM test environment for evaluating mobile applications](../../html/fr/raam1/environnement.md). This minimal test environment can be supplemented, if necessary, by open source and free solutions available or by older technologies, depending on the use of the site or mobile application. When it is possible to know the configuration of the workstations, as well as the hardware used, the reference base then consists of the services actually used in this environment. #### Testing pages or screens Each page or screen in the sample must be checked against the criteria that apply to it. There are 3 reasons why a criterion is not applicable to a page or screen: 1. The criterion concerns content or functionality that does not exist, for example if the page or screen does not include video, the criteria linked to videos will not be applicable. 2. The criterion concerns exempt content or service which is therefore not subject to the accessibility obligation. 3. The criterion concerns content subject to disproportionate burden exemption which is accompanied by an accessible digital alternative. For example, a statistical table with graphs that offers a numerical alternative in text. In this case the criteria applicable to the content subject to exemption will not apply. Please note: if the content subject to disproportionate burden exemption does not offer an accessible digital alternative, the criteria concerning this content are considered applicable. The pages or screens are then tested against the applicable criteria. These tests make it possible to obtain: * the number of validated and non-validated criteria for each page or screen * the compliance rate for each page or screen. Please note: * a criterion is validated for a given page or screen when all the elements of the page or screen have successfully passed the tests allowing the criterion to be validated; * as soon as a single element of the page or screen does not validate the tests of a criterion, the criterion cannot be validated; * if the page or screen is part of a process (make a declaration, participate in a public consultation, make an appointment), a criterion is validated for a page of the process only if it is validated for all pages or screens of the process. Certain criteria or themes are applicable to the entire site and not to a particular page, so it is not necessary to evaluate them on all the pages in the sample. In this case, they can for example be evaluated on a single page of the sample and be considered not applicable on all other pages. This methodology for reporting the results of the evaluation of these criteria is of course optional. Regardless of the methodology chosen, there will be no impact on the overall compliance rate of the site. This is particularly the case for the following criteria and themes: * Criterion 12.3 &ldquo;Is the "site map" page relevant?&rdquo; * The theme &laquo;&nbsp;14. Documentation and accessibility features&nbsp;&raquo; * The theme &laquo;&nbsp;16. Support Services&nbsp;&raquo; #### Compliance rate with the standard The compliance rate makes it possible to measure the progress of the online service with regard to compliance with accessibility requirements. This rate indicates the percentage of criteria met by the online service. The percentage of criteria met is obtained by dividing the number of validated criteria by the number of applicable criteria. * Validated criterion: a criterion is validated if it is validated on all pages or screens of the sample. If a criterion is invalidated on a single page or screen of the sample, it cannot be considered valid for the calculation of the rate. * Applicable criterion: for a criterion to be applicable, it suffices for it to be applicable on a single page or screen of the sample. The corollary of which is that a criterion is not applicable if it is not applicable on all the pages or screens of the sample without exception. This compliance rate determines the state of compliance to be mentioned in the [accessibility declaration](#content-of-the-accessibility-declaration). #### Principle of non-interference In an audit sample, there may be content which is not subject to the accessibility obligation: - [exempt content](#exempt-content); - [content exempted for disproportionate burden](#exemption-for-disproportionate-charge); - non-accessible content that has an accessible alternative. It is essential to ensure that this content does not prevent users from accessing the rest of the page. Thus, although the conformity of this content is not required, it remains obligatory that they comply with the following criteria and tests: - [Criterion 4.10](../../html/en/raweb1/criteres.html# crit-4-10): Is each automatically triggered sound controllable by the user? - [Criterion 12.9](../../html/en/raweb1/criteres.html#crit-12-9): In each web page, the navigation must not contain keyboard traps. Is this rule respected? - [Test 13.1.1](../../html/en/raweb1/criteres.html#test-13-1-1): For each web page, each refresh process (`<object>` tag, `<embed>` tag, `<svg>` tag, `<canvas>` tag, `<meta>` tag) does it satisfy one of these conditions (except in special cases)? - [Criterion 13.7](../../html/en/raweb1/criteres.html#crit-13-7): In each web page, are sudden changes in brightness or flash effects correctly used? - [Criterion 13.8](../../html/en/raweb1/criteres.html#crit-13-8): In each web page, is each moving or flashing content controllable by the user? Failure to meet any of these criteria or tests for any of the listed content types renders the corresponding criteria(s) non-compliant. The principle of non-interference is identified in standard EN 301 549 in criterion 9.6 WCAG <span lang="en">conformance requirements</span>. ### Accessibility declaration #### Content of the accessibility declaration The accessibility declaration is the result of an effective evaluation of the conformity of the site or mobile application with the reference standard. The accessibility declaration includes: - a state of conformity: - Total conformity: if all the control criteria of the framework are respected; - Partial compliance: if at least 50% of the benchmark control criteria are respected; - Non-compliance: if there are no valid audit results enabling compliance with the criteria to be measured or if less than 50% of the control criteria of the framework are respected; - a report of non-accessible content, distinguished according to whether it concerns non-compliance with the standard, exempt content or content subject to exemption for disproportionate load. In the latter case, the exemptions must be explained and justified. The report is accompanied, where applicable, by a presentation of the accessible alternatives planned; - assistance and contact devices: - an accessible mechanism (email address or form) to allow any person to report any lack of accessibility to the organization concerned and for a disabled person to request the corresponding information or a solution accessible alternative; - mention of the possibility for the person concerned to contact the SIP or the mediator. The accessibility declaration can be generated in several languages using the [declaration creation form](../../html/fr/tools/decla.html). #### Updates to the accessibility statement The accessibility statement is valid from its publication date. It must be updated regularly, in particular with each substantial modification or redesign of the site or application concerned. It may be desirable to update the accessibility statement more regularly in order to highlight the efforts made and update the level of compliance. #### Publication of the accessibility statement The accessibility statement is published in an accessible format. For websites, the accessibility statement is published on the website concerned. It is made available within an accessibility page, directly accessible from the home page and from any page of the site. For mobile applications, it is available on the website of the organization that developed the application or appears with other information available when downloading the application. Public sector bodies inform the Information and Press Service of the publication or update of the declaration without any particular formalities and within thirty days after the publication or update. The link to the accessibility declaration must be sent to the SIP at the address [accessibilite@sip.etat.lu](mailto:accessibilite@sip.etat.lu) #### Response to users The organization concerned provides provides users with the possibility of making complaints relating to the accessibility of its websites and mobile applications. He acknowledges receipt of these complaints. The organization concerned responds to any complaint within one month from the date of dispatch. If the user's complaint raises one or more complex questions justifying a longer examination time, the response indicates a reasonable time for the final response. The complex nature of the questions raised must be duly justified. If the information transmitted by the user in his complaint is incomplete or is not sufficiently clear, the organization concerned asks him to complete or clarify it and communicates the reasonable deadline. treatment or its definitive response after receipt of the requested additional information.