---
title: In each web page, does each functionality for downloading an office document verify one of these conditions?
steps:
  - The downloaded document is compatible with accessibility;
  - There is an alternative version for download compatible with accessibility;
  - There is an alternative version in HTML format compatible with accessibility.
---

1. Find the links and form controls in the document (a form button or a download form for example) allowing you to download a file in office format.
2. For each file in office format, check the presence of an alternative version presented as accessible:
   - For documents in .pdf format, check compliance with the [reference for evaluating the accessibility of documents in PDF format (RAPDF)](../rapdf1/index.html).
   - For documents in .doc or .docx format, analyze the file with the Microsoft Office accessibility check tool (from version 2010) and check for accessibility errors (see note ).
   - For documents in .odt format, analyze the document with the LibreOffice accessibility checker tool (from version 7.0).
   - For documents in EPUB/DAISY format, analyze the document with an EPUB/DAISY editor.
   - For the documents themselves in .html format, analyze the accessibility of the document.
3. If this is the case for each file in office format, **the test is validated**.

Note about Microsoft Office: the software offers an accessibility checker as standard, (accessible via the menu “File > Information > Check for problems > Check accessibility”). This checker can be significantly improved via the Word Accessibility Plug-in (see in the Tools section). This plugin only works on Windows. On Mac, the control must be done manually.

Note about LibreOffice: the software offers an accessibility checker as standard, accessible via the “Tools > Accessibility Check” menu.

Note about the EPUB format: the Ace by DAISY App utility allows you to perform the work of validating an EPUB 3 file efficiently.
