---
title: Each pre-recorded [synchronized temporal media](#temporal-media-type-sound-video-and-synchronize) that has synchronized [translation subtitles](#translation-subtitles) checks- one of these conditions (except in special cases)?
steps:
- A sound track containing a vocalization of all the translation subtitles can be activated by the user.
- A feature is available that allows translation subtitles to be vocalized.
- Translation subtitles can be vocalized by assistive technologies.
- There is an alternative version containing a vocalization of all the translation subtitles, accessible via an adjacent link or button.
---

1. Locate pre-recorded synchronized time-based media with translation subtitles.
2. Check the presence of an audio track which would be the vocalized version of the translation subtitles:
1. activate the sound track;
2. check that the spoken subtitles correspond to the displayed subtitles.
3. Otherwise, check for the presence of a functionality that allows you to vocalize subtitles:
1. <span lang="en">Text-to-speech</span>. Some media players (e.g. <a href="https://ableplayer.github.io/ableplayer/" lang="en">AblePlayer</a> or <a href="https://videojs.com"> VideoJS</a>), offer the possibility to add a description track in the form of a text file (similar in construction to a subtitle file with a [timestamp](#timestamp-time-stamp) ) which can be synthesized using the <span lang="en">Web Speech</span> API of browsers (we then speak of <span lang="en">text-to-speech</span>, or TTS). By activating this feature, the browser will read the description. This feature can be used to provide a voiced version of captions, and would therefore be considered a compliant implementation if properly documented for the user. To test it:
1. enable the feature;
2. start playing multimedia content;
3. check that the texts displayed by this means are vocalized.
2. Description tracks. Some media players (for example, <a href="https://ableplayer.github.io/ableplayer/" lang="en">AblePlayer</a> or <a href="https://player.support. brightcove.com/playback/using-screen-reader-brightcove-player.html">BrightCove</a>) offer the possibility of integrating description tracks in the form of a text file (of a construction similar to a subtitle file with a [timestamp](#horodatage-time-stamp)) and which is declared in the code using the <code>&lt;track&gt;</code> tag with the <code>kind attribute ="descriptions"</code> and whose final implementation is provided with sufficient properties to allow their rendering by screen readers (presence of the <code>aria-live</code> property for example). This feature can be used to provide a version of captions that can be spoken by screen readers, and would therefore be considered a compliant implementation if properly documented for the user. To test it:
1. enable the feature;
2. enable screen reader;
3. check that the texts displayed by this means are vocalized.
4. Otherwise:
1. enable translation subtitles;
2. enable screen reader;
3. check that the spoken subtitles correspond to the displayed subtitles.
5. Otherwise:
1. look for the presence of an alternative media whose soundtrack contains vocalized translation subtitles;
2. check that the spoken subtitles correspond to the displayed subtitles.
6. If so, the test is validated.