---
title: Does every pre-recorded [time-synchronised media](#time-based-media-audio-video-and-synchronised) with synchronised [translation subtitles](#translation-subtitles) meet one of these conditions (excluding special cases)?
steps:
- A sound track containing a vocalisation of all the translation subtitles can be activated by the user.
- A function is available that allows translation subtitles to be voiced.
- The translation subtitles can be vocalised by assistive technologies.
- An alternative version is available, with all the translation subtitles vocalised, accessible via an adjacent link or button.
---

1. Locate time-synchronised media pre-recorded with translation subtitles.
2. Check for the presence of an audio track that would be the vocalised version of the translation subtitles:
	1. activate the sound track;
	2. check that the vocalised subtitles correspond to the subtitles displayed.
3. If not, check that there is a function that allows you to voice subtitles:
	1. <span lang="en">Text-to-speech</span>. Some media players (e.g. <a href="https://ableplayer.github.io/ableplayer/" lang="en">AblePlayer</a> or <a href="https://videojs.com">VideoJS</a>) offer the option of adding a description track in the form of a text file (similar in construction to a subtitle file with a [time stamp](#time-stamp)) that can be synthesised using the <span lang="en">Web Speech</span> API of browsers (this is known as <span lang="en">text-to-speech</span>, or TTS). By activating this feature, the browser reads the description. This functionality can be used to provide a vocalised version of subtitles, and would therefore be considered a compliant implementation if properly documented for the user. To test it: 
		1. activate the feature;
		2. start playing the multimedia content;
		3. check that the texts displayed by this means are vocalised.
	2. Description. Some media players (for example, <a href="https://ableplayer.github.io/ableplayer/" lang="en">AblePlayer</a> or <a href="https://player.support.brightcove.com/playback/using-screen-reader-brightcove-player.html">BrightCove</a>) offer the option of integrating description tracks in the form of a text file (similar in construction to a subtitle file with a [time stamp](#time-stamp)) which is declared in the code using the <code>&lt;track&gt;</code> tag with the <code>kind="descriptions"</code> attribute and whose final implementation has sufficient properties to enable them to be played back by screen readers (presence of the <code>aria-live</code> property, for example). This functionality can be used to provide a version of the subtitles that can be vocalised by screen readers, and would therefore be considered a compliant implementation if it is properly documented for the user. To test it: 
		1. activate the functionality;
		2. activate the screen reader;
		3. check that the texts displayed by this means are vocalised.
4. If not 
	1. activate the translation subtitles;
	2. activate the screen reader;
	3. check that the spoken subtitles match the subtitles displayed.
5. Otherwise
	1. check for alternative media whose soundtracks contain voice-activated subtitles;
	2. check that the spoken subtitles match the subtitles displayed.
6. If this is the case, the test is validated.